we now know that Governor Dewey will
carry New York State by at least 50,000
votes and that he will be
in the United States
on election night 1948 Republican
campaign leader Herbert Brownell and a
legion of news men continued to echo
public opinion polls that said Thomas e
Dewey would be the next president of the
United States only Harry Truman and the
American people disagreed they refused
to accept the stand still philosophy of
Tom Dewey or the southern mandates of
third party candidate J Strom Thurmond
1968 is beginning to look like 1948 all
over again Hubert Humphrey has stepped
into Harry Truman's boots while dick
Nixon and George Wallace are wearing the
shoes of Tom Dewey and Strom Thurmond
the choice seems very much the same
the Democratic campaign began when
Humphrey clearly and firmly told his
staff where he stands on the issues I
want somebody say that Humphreys ideas
are good the other one fell said well I
guess I disagree with you and I want to
argue about my ideas there's when they
start arguing about my ideas that I've
told you in respect they may not vote
for you but you've got them on this
substantive argumentative line and
that's what I want not whether he's old
half new hat whether he can be his own
man and all that cheap journalistic bunk
but let's get on with let's get us let's
get this argument elevated we've just
got to make it crystal clear that the
President of the United States and his
ambassadors are making a deterent major
massive effort to find an honorable
peace in Paris but the Peace of the
world is going to depend on the capacity
and the ability of the Soviet Union in
the United States to maintain a mutual
respect for each other and to see that
there isn't a major confrontation that
boils over into nuclear war that's the
way it's going to be for the next at
least 10 years maybe longer
you know mr. mixon is the one man that
cannot talk to the Russians and if you
think there's any chance for world peace
without a president the United States to
be able to talk to the Russians you're
wrong and whether we like them or
whether we don't the Russians we've got
to learn how to live with it
and at least we got to have a mutual you
gotta have a contact I've talked with
mr. proceeded more than any other
Americans saved the president the United
States and maybe more than he has but
we're gonna talk about the life of our
people the life of our nation the life
of this world how he's preserve this
life how we enrich this life how we make
it meaning how we make it better how we
make it last longer
everything that Bobby Kennedy fought for
it if any of you have those feelings we
fought for with equal vigor not nor but
with equal and sometimes earlier and
we're prepared to do it as long or
longer
they hope
emphasis in this campaign on major
substantive issues will he be
essentially the urban community
urbanization and I'm the one man in this
whole business that's been with the
large city what's more is I have worked
for four years now with every mayor of
every major city in the United States
and been to dozens of meetings with them
and have visited their cities you're
talking to a fella that's been in more
slums and all the talkers put together
we've been there we've been with the
slum kids and the slum adults and we've
been out there to see in these projects
and these back alleys not see I feel
this I ran all the vocational schools in
the state of Minnesota all of them
I was the area manpower director so I
had a little experience we went
liquidated our relief roads with a war
on poverty the forests first citywide
vocational rehabilitation program of
greed training employment in the United
States I recta dated the employees of a
WPA I trained and retrained him and
employed them that was my job as the
administrator of that division they
talked about law and order and everybody
is talking about law and order and there
isn't a one of them they could even run
a Scout Troop I did that too I didn't
run a police department and I increased
its size and doubled its pay and clean
it up and reorganized it and maybe also
acceptable to the community I've talked
about the most commonplace problems that
happens in our slums the place that has
the least police protection that needs
the most that has the oldest schools
that needs the newest that has the
poorest teachers that needs the best
that gets the garbage collected less
often and needs it collected more often
but has the oldest fire equipment and
needs the newest but has the worst
streets and needs to the best and as the
fewest parks and needs the most the
easiest the most humane will to kill a
person who's quickly the agony of
disease the agony of fear of worry of
despair
but not being wanted the prejudice of
bigotry of hatred that's the worst way
to kill a man because it just lingers on
and on and on and on and you live in
misery now that's the picture of slum
America and I know it like I know in the
back of my hand I've been all over this
country there is no candidate that's
ever run for public office that's been
in an urban America as much as the man
you're looking at if I don't know this
and I do not love my mother or know my
children I know that we've helped young
people and we've helped a lot of them
and that's a wonderful feeling we want
young people but really what we want is
not so much their adoration as we want
to do what is right by them I'm not
really going to it's not going to kill
me if they're not cheering me because
this won't be the first time that this
has happened to me in my life I've had
to do a lot of things where people spend
most of their time Jerry that's Oh being
popular is not so important as kind of
do what you think is right I'll give you
one other suggestion American people
today they're what they want to adjust
to the change that's here but they do
not want to break with all that they
have and you don't have to sell your
soul but you do occasionally have to
take a little note of what the other guy
is doing and give him a little attention
77% of the American people today have a
little investment in a home and they
want to make sure that that fella is
going to be their president isn't going
to isn't going to let their house be
burned down isn't going to let the
mortgage market go to pieces isn't going
to let the stock market go to pieces and
at the same time that he's doing all
these protective things that he's going
to make sure that they get another sort
of work week and and that they get
better education for their children and
so on it's a mixture a kind of a
sensible mixture of self-protection on
the one hand and social progress on the
other end this is that typically
American pragmatic approach we're very
much moved down here in Washington by
the militants and there is a role for
the militants but I want to tell you
there are two kinds of there's that
intellectual militant that makes you
think it stirs up your juices and then
there's that noisy one that just stirs
up your emotions and really the counter
action the reaction is devastating in
this country I've met with four
militants yesterday out and st. Paul
they think that you're playing games
with them they don't think that you're
really listening to them because most of
the time when we get with him for the
first half hour they're so abusive and
their anger that you don't want to
listen any longer but I took an hour
with him and after 30 minutes we started
to communicate the first 30 minutes they
poured out their vitriol on me and I
just sat there and took it because maybe
that there's only 30 minutes of
humiliation I had to take they maybe
taken it for 20 years but as I said to
these young people as we left and they
have questioned me at length I said to
them look don't try to destroy the law
by violence because you're not going to
win if you think the law is unjust and
we have reason to believe that it's
unjust or being unjustly and inequitably
enforced then there's only one thing for
you to do we need to get together I can
be your instrument for an honorable
democratic procedural change because
that's why we preserve the right of
dissent in this country that's why we
believe that you must respect the right
of a minority and I think I made a sale
but there never been a government that
has done as much for the poor and never
been a government has done as much in
the field of civil rights as this one
never never never and it will hippie in
human history is phenomenal